Lab 1 - Requirements Gathering


WAITERS

1.Q: Must clients pay for the order immediately after its entered to the system or can the bill be left open? 
A: The bill can be left open
2.Q: Must an open bill have a limit? If so, will it depend on the client? 
A: An open bill should have a limit of 100 eur and 200eur for a regular customer.
3.Q: Should waiters be able to hand the bill over to the other waiter? 
A: Yes
4.Q: Should we support credit cards at all? 
A: Yes we should.
5.Q: Which credit cards?
A: Most common credit cards.
6.Q: Can the open bill limit be increased if client is using an accepted credit card?
A: The limit can be increased when the client is using an accepted credit card.
7.Q: Should the system be multilingual? 
A: No need for that. The system should be in english.
8.Q: Does the restaurant have table service?
A: Yes
9.Q: Should customers be able to split the bill?
A: Yes 
10.Q: Is there a client card?
A: Yes
11.Q: What are the bonuses of the client card?
A: Regular discount of -5% and on customers birthday month -10%. 
12.Q: Are client cards for free?
A: No, you have buy one.
13.Q: Does the client card have an expiration date?
A: No
14.Q: Can clients book tables?
A: Yes 
15.Q: Should the system show booked tables?
A: Yes, a different colour perhaps
16.Q: Can a waiter enter a booking to the system?
A: Yes
17.Q: Should customers be able to call a waiter electronically?
A: No, we have a different system for that.
18.Q: Can a waiter edit or end another waiters bill?
A: No, only the head waiter should be able to edit all the bills.
19.Q: How do you calculate TIP?
A: We accept TIP in cash.
20.Q: Can a waiter add or remove goods from the system?
A: No, head waiter only.


HEAD WAITER

1.Q:Would you like to have a function, that can be used to send the bill to client’s e-mail?
A: Sure.
2.Q: Is it your task to send the bill to client’s e-mail?
A: No, the waiters also can do that.
3.Q: Should the POS allow to record the employees entering and exiting the system? (employee time tracking)   
A: Yes, then i know how many hours waiters are at work.
4.Q: Should the POS allow to record cash registers initial and end states?
A: Yes
5.Q: Do you need to be able to add new goods to the system?
A: Yes
6.Q: Do you also can remove the goods from the system?
A: Yes
7.Q: How to you advertise your restaurant?
A: We send the adverstisement to the regular customers’ e-mail.
8.Q: Do you need their phone numbers as well?
A: Yes 
9.Q: How will you use the phone number?
A: We send advertisements in a text message.
10.Q: Shoud the customer have a choice between e-mail and text message?
A: Yes. They can have both also.
11.Q: Are the regular customers asked if they want to get advertisements?
A: Yes
12.Q: How often are advertisements sent?
A: Once in a month and before upcoming events.
13.Q: Can you change waiters bills ?
A: Yes, i am able to do that.
14.Q: Can you also revoke the bill?
A: Yes
15.Q: Do you need tutorials how to use POS system?
A: Yes, then employees become familiar with the system
16.Q: Do you need possibility to review logs of sales?
A: I have to be able to review logs of the sales to make reports
17.Q: How would you like to search products?
A: By entering keywords
18.Q: Do you have gift cards?
A: Yes, we have cards for 10, 20 and 50 euros
19.Q: Would you also like digital gift cards?
A: No need.
20.Q: Should the waiters get reminders to ask for ID?
A: Yes


IT-GUY

1.Q: Is the card authorization processed by the POS computer, or from outside equipment?
A: Outside equipment.
2.Q: What type of reports does the POS system produce?
A: Reports about transactions and changes made by user.
3.Q: Where should data be stored?
A: On the hard drive of the POS system computer.
4.Q: How would data have to be secured?
A: Data would have to be secured by malware protection and by making backups.
5.Q: Are there any requirements that POS system would have to have to the computer?
A: No, hardware will be selected by the needs of the software.
6.Q: Should POS software be accessible from different place, for example store and home?
A:Yes.
7.Q: What kind of POS system components are being used?
A:  A POS system consists of a computer, cash drawer, bardcode scanner, receipt printer, programmable keyboard or, and the appropriate point of sale applications and POS software
8.Q:What kind of informatin the POS software should provide?
A: Pertinent informatsion such as menu items, price listing, manager passwords, employee information and server numbers.
9.Q: Do you need possibility to customize the system?
A: Yes, there should be couple of themes to make system user-friendlier. For example dark, light, nature
10.Q: Does the POS system need to give feedback about transactions?
A: It should provide snapshot feedback which describes current state of the transaction and calculated result of transaction before & after committing a transaction.
11.Q: Do you need possibility to customise layout for handedness and dexterity ?
A: Yes, we need two different layouts depending on handedness.
12.Q: Should the system send birthday wishes to the regular clients and employees?
A: Yes
13.Q: How many users are usually using system at the same time?
A: Up to two per front.
14.Q: Shoud there be a help option, where you can ask a question about the system?
A: Yes. 
15.Q: Would the POS system be used as an office computer (for using the Internet, writing e-mails, etc)?
A: Yes it would.
16.Q: Should POS system support multiple stores?
A: Yes.
17.Q: Is it important that POS can be installed without specialist?
A: No but it is preferred.
18.Q: Should you be able to make extra configurations to POS power feed due to POS being sensitive to power interuptions.
A: Yes.
19.Q: Should system be compatible with QuickBooks or other accounting software?
A:Yes it should.
20.Q: Should software be multilingual?
A:No need for that. The system should be in english.


RESTAURANT MANAGER

1.Q: Are there any differences in the mentioned operations between different countries?
A: No there aren’t
2.Q: Do you have different customer groups?
A: Regular customers and customers who don’t have client card
3.Q: Does your restaurant take special orders or you can order only from menu?
A: We can take special orders, if necessary
4.Q: Are there different menus in different locations?
A: Yes
5.Q: Are the prices of same products different depending on location?
A:  Yes, prices are different in different contries.
6.Q: Should POS support online ordering?
A: Yes
7.Q: Should the POS allow to record the employees entering and exiting the system? (employee time tracking)
A: Yes 
8.Q: Do waiters get bonus for their work?
A: Yes, they do
9.Q: How do you calculate bonus?
A: The bonus is based on the monthly income of the restaurant
10.Q: Where do you order goods?
A: From the warehouse
11.Q: Should the POS be connected to the warehouse order system?
A: No need
12.Q: Would UI have to be touch-sensitive?
A: Yes
13.Q: Would you like to have categories for food or just for different drinks?
A: We mostly offer drinks but we also need a category for snacks
14.Q: How would you like drinks organized in UI?
A: Bottled beer, draft beer, house special and also we would like to offer to the customers non-alcoholic drinks, shooters, mixed drinks, wine, siders, strong-drinks(vodka, whiskey etc.) 
15.Q: Would you like to be able to add pictures to the items in the list?
A: Yes, then the items are easier to recognize.
16.Q: Would you like the item categories to be pre-made or would you like to make them by yourself?
A: The basic categories should be pre-made but there should be possibility to add new categories
17.Q: Does the POS system have different user groups?
A:Yes for  waiters, head waiter, manager
18.Q: Does the UI have to be different depending the user?
A:Yes, the UI should present the relevant options to that logged-in persona according to these guideline
19.Q:  Does the restaurant have discount for emolyees?
A:Yes, they can get -10% discount.
20.Q:Do you have annual discount events like company’s anniversary?
A:Yes, our company’s anniversay is on 24’th september, all customers have -10% discount on that day.


REQUIREMENTS

1.Waiter shall be able to enter orders
2.Waiter shall be able to track orders.
3.Waiter shall be able to perform billing and accept payments.
4.Waiter shall be able to leave the bill open
5.Waiter shall be able to hand the bill over to other waiters
6.Waiter shall be able to split the bill if the customer wishes so 
7.Waiter shall be able to increase the limit of the customers bill if the client uses accepted credit card
8.Waiter shall be able to enter bookings
9.Waiters shall be able to delete bookings
10.It(POS) shall show the booked tables to the waiters
11.Head waiter shall be able to record cash registers initial and end states.
12.Head waiter shall be able to add goods to the system
13.Head waiter shall be able to remove goods from the system
14.Head waiter shall be able to keep track of employees working schedule
15.Head waiter shall be able to change waiters bills
16.Head waiter shall be able to revoke waiters bills.
17.Head waiter shall be able to review logs of the sales for making reports
18.Waiter shall be able to send the bill to the client’s e-mail.
19.Restaurant manager shall be able to calculate bonuses for waiters based on the monthly income of the restaurant.
20.Restaurant manager shall be able to see which products are out of stock.
21.Waiters shall be able to enter new gift cards
22.It shall accept gift cards as form of payment
23.Waiters shall be able to add new client cards
24.Waiters shall be able to change regular clients’ information
25.Waiters shall be able to change regular clients’ advertisement preferences
26.System should have the help option where employees can ask questions about the system
27.Waiter shall be able to get reminders to ask for ID
28.The POS system should support multiple stores
29.The POS system has to be secured
30.It shall be possible to send advertisements to the regular patrons (guests who regularly come to the restaurant).
31.Company administration shall be able to get different reports for each particular restaurant and arbitrary groups of restaurants.
32.It(POS) should be able to take the dicount(-5% or -10%) from the bill if the customer has client card.
33.The data shall be stored on the hard drive of the POS system computer.
34.The POS system shall support online ordering
35.It shall be able to enter special orders
36.It shall contain different menus in different countries
37.It shall contain price listing
38.It shall contain employee information
39.Head waiter shall be able to change employees information
40.The POS system shall be able to show pictures of the items
41.Head waiter shall be able to edit pictures
42.It shall be able to categorise food and drinks
43.There shall be basic categories and also the categories should be editable
44.In the POS system should have different user groups to waiters, head waiter and manager
45.There shall be tutorials when the user first logs in
46.It shall be possible to search itmes by keyword
47.It shall be able to send an advertisement to the client’s e-mail or phone
48.It shall be able to send birthday wishes to customers and employees
49.System should be able to calculate discount
50.The POS system should allow users to use the system at the same time


USABILITY

1.The UI shall be touch-sensitive
2.The POS system should support dexterity 
3.There should be different themes in order to make system more user-friedly
4.The UI has to be different according to user groups
5.The system should have night mode


PERFORMANCE

1.Logging in and out of the system shouldn’t take longer than 1 second
2.System should be logical and easy to follow
3.Transactions should be (almost) instant 
4.The system should take the hardware into accout 
5.The POS system should give constant feedback about transactions
